[DOCS-5907] Updating blue ocean dashboard page (#5459)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/blueocean/dashboard.adoc

= Dashboard

> Blue Ocean's *Dashboard* is the default view shown when opening Blue Ocean.

Reviewer: I am a little uncertain about the *Dashboard* phrasing, since I do not see the word Dashboard in the UI. I think that they put the quotes around it because that is how they refer to it when it isn't something that can be selected in the UI. 

Here is a note from Microsoft manual of style about the term "dashboard": https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/word-choice/use-technical-terms-carefully

And why I chose "user interface" for my suggestion:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/i/interface

```suggestion
Blue Ocean's user interface is the default view when opening Blue Ocean.
```

Author: discussed on Slack, leaving Dashboard terminology as it is describing the _intended_ purpose/definition of the page, despite Dashboard not being a part of the UI.

It disaplays an overview of all Pipeline projects configured on a Jenkins instance.

include::doc/book/blueocean/_blue-ocean-status.adoc[]

> The Dashboard consists of a blue link:#navigation-bar[navigation bar] at the top, the link:#pipelines-list[Pipelines list], and the link:#favorites-list[Favorites list].

Reviewer: Or "the user interface"
```suggestion
Blue Ocean consists of a blue link:#navigation-bar[navigation bar] at the top, the link:#pipelines-list[Pipelines list], and the link:#favorites-list[Favorites list].
```

Author: same comment as above, leaving Dashboard terminology for consistency

[.boxshadow]

> image:blueocean/dashboard/overview.png[Overview of the Dashboard,role=center,width=100%]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image:blueocean/dashboard/overview.png[Overview of the Blue Ocean user interface,role=center,width=100%]
```

Author: updated accordingly

== Navigation bar

> The Dashboard includes the blue link:../getting-started#navigation-bar[navigation bar] along the top of the interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user interface includes the blue link:../getting-started#navigation-bar[navigation bar] along the top of the interface.
```

Author: leaving dashboard terminology, discussed in slack

> This bar is divided into two sections:

Reviewer: I try to avoid using "this" and "that" since it can get confusing. In "this example" I would use it. But when they are already on the subject and know what you are talking about, it can throw them onto something else. (Just a suggestion though, keep it if you think it adds clarity.)

```suggestion
The bar is divided into two sections:
```

Author: That makes total sense! I was going back and forth again on the best option, thanks for pointing this out!

> * A common section along the top 
> * A contextual section below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A common section along the top.
* A contextual section below.
```

Author: Good callout, I missed this during my proofreading, thanks @cari-mason !

** The contextual section changes depending on the Blue Ocean page you are viewing.

> When viewing the Dashboard, the navigation bar's contextual section includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewing the Blue Ocean user interface, the navigation bar's contextual section includes:
```

Author: leaving dashboard terminology for consistency

* *Search pipelines*: This field allows users to filter the link:#pipelines-list[Pipelines list] to match the text you enter into this field.
* *New Pipeline*: This option begins the process of link:../creating-pipelines[creating a Pipeline].

== Pipelines list

> The *Pipelines* list is the Dashboard's default list, and upon accessing Blue Ocean for the first time, the only list shown on the Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Pipelines* list is the default list, and upon accessing Blue Ocean for the first time, the only list shown on the Dashboard.
```

Author: updated accordingly for syntax, thanks @cari-mason !

> This list shows the overall state of each Pipeline configured on the Jenkins instance.

Reviewer: Is the word "configured" required? And should it be "on" or "in"? I am not sure.

Author: changed to in, I believe that is more correct in this case

> This list can include other items configured on the Jenkins instance.
> For a given item in this list, the following information is displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list can include other items configured on the Jenkins instance.
The following information is displayed for each Pipeline list item:
```

Author: thanks for suggesting this!

* The item's *NAME*
* The item's link:#pipeline-health[*HEALTH*]

> * The numbers of *BRANCHES* and pull requests *(PRs)* of the Pipeline's source control repository that are passing or failing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The number of *BRANCHES* and pull requests *(PRs)* that are passing or failing within the Pipeline's source control repository.
```

Author: definitely see how that improves the text, thanks!

> * A &#9734;, indicating whether or not the item has been manually added to your current Jenkins <<favorites-list>>.

Reviewer: NOTE: I am not sure if the &#9734 displays as expected.

Author: they should display properly in this case, and have rendered in my preview so it should be okay!

Selecting an item's &#9734; will toggle between:

> * Adding the default branch of the item's repository to your Favorites list, which is indicated by a solid &#9733;.

Reviewer: Is this term in the UI? (Sorry I can't see it.)
```suggestion
* Adding the default branch of the item's repository to your *Favorites* list, which is indicated by a solid &#9733;.
```

Author: oh right! I removed the bold since it's not actually labeled in the UI

* Removing the item's default branch from this list, which is indicated by an outlined &#9734;.

Selecting an item in the Pipelines list will display that item's link:../activity[Activity View].

== Favorites list

The *Favorites* list appears above the Dashboard's default <<pipelines-list>> when at least one Pipeline/item is present in your Favorites list.

This list provides key information and actions for a core subset of your accessible items in the <<pipelines-list>>.
This key information includes the current link:#run-status[run status] for an item and its repository's branch, the name of the branch, the initial part of the commit hash, and the last run time. 
This list also includes options to run or re-run the item on the indicated branch.

> You should only add an item or branch to your Favorites list if it needs regular monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should only add an item or branch to your *Favorites* list if it needs regular monitoring.
```

Author: same as above

> Adding an item's specific branch to your Favorites list can be done through the item's link:../activity[Activity View].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding an item's specific branch to your *Favorites* list can be done through the item's link:../activity[Activity View].
```

Author: removed as not labeled in the UI itself

Blue Ocean automatically adds branches and PRs to this list when they include a run that contains any modifications you have performed.

> You can also manually remove items from your Favorites list by deselecting the solid &#9733; in this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also manually remove items from your *Favorites* list by deselecting the solid &#9733; in this list.
```

Author: same as above

When there are no longer items in this list, the list is removed from the Dashboard.

> Selecting the favorite &#9733; for any item will bring the list back to your dashboard.

Reviewer: When using "Dashboard" it is capitalized in one sentence and not in others. I think that it should be lowercase if it is not something that is selected in the UI. (If you do keep it.)

Author: made sure to capitalize it accordingly!

> Selecting an item in the Favorites list will open the link:../pipeline-run-details[Pipeline run details] for the latest run on the branch or PR indicated.

Reviewer: Our bee write standards say to avoid future tense.
```suggestion
Selecting an item in the *Favorites* list opens the link:../pipeline-run-details[Pipeline run details] for the latest run on the branch or PR indicated.
```

Author: that's right, thanks for noting this!

[[pipeline-health]]
=== Health icons

Blue Ocean represents the overall health of a Pipeline/item or one of its branches using weather icons. 
These icons change depending on the number of recent builds that have passed.

> Health icons on the Dashboard represent overall Pipeline health, whereas the health icons in the link:../activity#branches[Branches tab of the Activity View] represent the overall health for each branch.

Reviewer: Pointing out the last instance of "Dashboard" in case you want to do something with it. ;)
